# Project Management Log
# List of contents
* [Project management discussion](#project-management-discussion)
    * [What we did](#what-we-did)
    * [What barriers we encountered](#what-barriers-we-encountered)
    * [Areas for improvement](#areas-for-improvement)
* [Sprint Burndown Charts](#sprint-burndown-charts)
* [Burndown-Charts Discussion](#burndown-charts-discussion)
* [Product Backlog](#product-backlog)
* [Other Areas](#other-areas)

## Project management discussion
### What we did
The ability to work collaboratively is an important aspect of this project. As described in the [Risk log](https://cseegit.essex.ac.uk/2019_ce292/ce292_team_2/blob/master/MVP/RequirementsAndRiskLog.md#risk-log-1) and the [work log](https://cseejira.essex.ac.uk/browse/CE292T1902-38?focusedWorklogId=26744&page=com.atlassian.jira.plugin.system.issuetabpanels%3Aworklog-tabpanel#worklog-26744) of the relevant risk issue on Jira, our team has put effort to avoid this issue being a barrier by meeting together, discussing and considering what decisions would be optimal for the development of the software and the project in general. This involved:  
* communicating through the "Whatsapp" groupchat  
* sharing thoughts about the preferred programming language/framework to use (documented in [this Jira issue](https://cseejira.essex.ac.uk/browse/CE292T1902-1) and its' [comments](https://cseejira.essex.ac.uk/browse/CE292T1902-1?focusedCommentId=24630&page=com.atlassian.jira.plugin.system.issuetabpanels%3Acomment-tabpanel#comment-24630))  
* discussing current progress and plans for the future (documented in [this Jira issue]() and its' sub-tasks [(1)](https://cseejira.essex.ac.uk/browse/CE292T1902-10), [(2)](https://cseejira.essex.ac.uk/browse/CE292T1902-11))  
* setting up the meetings in order to discuss the currently used codebase and familiarize with Qt programming (documented in [this Jira issue](https://cseejira.essex.ac.uk/browse/CE292T1902-15))  
* deciding together when it is the right time to focus on documentation in order to meet MVP deadline  
* getting feedback and addressing issues  
* creation of [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://cseegit.essex.ac.uk/2019_ce292/ce292_team_2/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) file that helps to memorize the git commands required for downloading, modifying and uploading the code  
* distributing tasks among each other, which could be seen in the following Jira issues:  
    * [Familiarise with command-line cseegit](https://cseejira.essex.ac.uk/browse/CE292T1902-2)   
    * [Continue using QT](https://cseejira.essex.ac.uk/browse/CE292T1902-13)  
    * [Create detailed list of smart devices](https://cseejira.essex.ac.uk/browse/CE292T1902-16))  
    * [Smart device states in Qt](https://cseejira.essex.ac.uk/browse/CE292T1902-25)  
    * [Research into group MVP on moodle](https://cseejira.essex.ac.uk/browse/CE292T1902-31)   
    * [Complete CE292 weekly quiz](https://cseejira.essex.ac.uk/browse/CE292T1902-29)  
    * [Create a powerpoint for the demonstration](https://cseejira.essex.ac.uk/browse/CE292T1902-35)  

### What barriers we encountered
Because we are second year students, great majority of us live outside of campus, which is associated with significant travel time that to some extent limits potential opportunities to meet together. Aside from that, multiple people from our group happen to have unfavourable distribution of modules within an academic year resulting in even less time available for meetings (due to relatively high number of deadlines for other modules). Face to face meetings are very valuable in terms of communication, however despite the previously mentioned challenges, we managed to find alternative ways to achieve the same result (e.g. by using online groupchat).


### Areas for improvement
From the perspective of project management, we could put more effort into creating strategies to mitigate the risks posted as Jira issues. In particular we could address the following risk issues:
* [Inability to work collaboratively](https://cseejira.essex.ac.uk/browse/CE292T1902-38)  
* [Misdirected focus](https://cseejira.essex.ac.uk/browse/CE292T1902-39)  

In the [RequirementsAndRiskLog.md](https://cseegit.essex.ac.uk/2019_ce292/ce292_team_2/blob/master/MVP/RequirementsAndRiskLog.md) file, several mitigation attempts are listed for both risks above, however these are areas where we could do more. For example we could divert the focus from the development itself towards Jira sooner. We could also make sure that the changes in the program are reflected by their corresponding Jira issues or sprints. In terms of working collaboratively we could try to meet more often and engage more into group discussions.


## Sprint Burndown Charts
![burndown_char_image_1](https://github.com/michalmonday/files/blob/master/ce292_team_project/images/MVP/burndown_1_c.png?raw=true)  
![burndown_char_image_1](https://github.com/michalmonday/files/blob/master/ce292_team_project/images/MVP/burndown_1_issues.png?raw=true)  

![burndown_char_image_2](https://github.com/michalmonday/files/blob/master/ce292_team_project/images/MVP/burndown_2_c.png?raw=true)  
![burndown_char_image_2](https://github.com/michalmonday/files/blob/master/ce292_team_project/images/MVP/burndown_2_issues.png?raw=true)  

![burndown_char_image_3](https://github.com/michalmonday/files/blob/master/ce292_team_project/images/MVP/burndown_3_c.png?raw=true)  
![burndown_char_image_3](https://github.com/michalmonday/files/blob/master/ce292_team_project/images/MVP/burndown_3_issues.png?raw=true)  

![burndown_char_image_4](https://github.com/michalmonday/files/blob/master/ce292_team_project/images/MVP/burndown_4_c.png?raw=true)  
![burndown_char_image_4](https://github.com/michalmonday/files/blob/master/ce292_team_project/images/MVP/burndown_4_issues.png?raw=true)  

![burndown_char_image_5](https://github.com/michalmonday/files/blob/master/ce292_team_project/images/MVP/burndown_5_c.png?raw=true)  
![burndown_char_image_5](https://github.com/michalmonday/files/blob/master/ce292_team_project/images/MVP/burndown_5_issues.png?raw=true)  


## Burndown Charts Discussion
Although we did not manage to reflect every step of program development on Jira, the burndown charts above as well as the cumulative flow diagram in the "[Other Areas](#other-areas)" section show that we systematically worked on the project.  

As you can see from the Burndown Charts, there is a different number of issues, this changes depending on what we have to do.  
For the 21st to the 28th we had only 1 issue, which was due to the fact we had a class given task.
This task only required 1 issue as it was a simple task.  

For the 28th to the 4th there were 2 issues. These were to check the overall progress of the first task, since there were some absences.  
We also need to discuss which language we were going to use.
Since they were relating to different issues, 2 were created.  

For the 4th to the 11th there were 4 issues. These were for our startup so to speak. 
During this we had the team member's create lists with different smart devices and their functions, which was one of the issues.
We had Michal continue using the language we selected the week prior (Qt).
We also had an issue that was for the current Scrum Master, this was just to avoid confusion and for a Scrum Master to be stated.
There was also an issue for Jaro to research how to display different states of devices. 
All these issues are different hence the separate issues.  

For the 11th to the 18th there were 8 issues. At this point we were having difficulty finding work for individual members.
Due to this tasks were created for member's to work on the Moodle Quizzes. Though these should've been Sub-Tasks of one main issue, hence here are a lot more issues here than other dates.
We carried on with the Scrum Master issue, changing it to another team member.
A programming task was also set to make the code simpler, allowing both the team and 'customer' to read the code with better understanding.
Though the mistake was made of creating indiviual issues per team member instead of sub-tasks, all issues were differing.  

For the 18th to the 25th there were 2 issues. These were created to guide the team in the creation of MVP documents. 
One was more specific as it was made to create a powerpoint to go along with our demonstration. 
The other was a generic task, more of a reminder, for the MVP. 



## Product Backlog
![backlog image](https://github.com/michalmonday/files/blob/master/ce292_team_project/images/MVP/backlog.PNG?raw=true)  

## Other Areas
>*If your team has anything else they want to demonstrate, e.g. advanced project management tools, reporting graphs with suitable explanation and interpretation, advanced use of Jira (e.g. issue links, epics, versions), or continuous integration tools, then include a summary here.*

The graph below shows our work pace. As you can see we have a steady flow, there are new tasks available each week and tasks get completed weekly.  
Though we do need to mark more tasks as 'In-Progress' as the results look skewed. 

![cumulative flow diagram](https://github.com/michalmonday/files/blob/master/ce292_team_project/images/MVP/cumulative%20flow%20diagram.PNG?raw=true)











